# comp150-cpd 
 
 
## Summary 
In the future after I complete this course my goal is to become a game developer and develop games. I would like to start small and make indie games in a small development team, then If things go well I would love to join a larger company to work on AAA games as a computing professional. So far I have developed programming skills through making a game in a small group and through tinkering graphics and audio. I have also learnt about agile development which is used in the games industry very often. In addition to this I have learnt some key background knowledge to computing. Five key challenges I faced were version control, essay writing, independent study, presenting, and programming. Actions that will help me will be to set myself amounts of hours I must spend each day doing different types of work, for example I will practice programming for 2 hours a day on weekdays and will work on essays for 1 hour a day every day. This will improve my independent skills along with my essay writing and programming skills. I will also practice presenting to friends and family to increase my confidence for the future. In addition to this i will learn more about how to use version control, git branching in particular, to be ready for next terms group game project. 

## Week 1 - 12th September   
This was my fist week at university, the induction week, or as most students call it freshers week. On the Sunday before the week started i went to the 'meet your mentor' event where i met my mentor and did some game concept ideation activities.  Throughout the induction week there were a few induction lectures about the university services, a meeting with my tutor and a programming mixer. During the week I mingled with some course mates which is useful as I will be working in teams with them in the future, I also learnt how to access the learning  space which is where all of the assignment briefs and PowerPoint slides will be. One challenge I encountered was finding the room that I had to go to, however in future our lessons and lectures will be in the same rooms each week so I shouldn't have the problem again. At the end of the week I had a welcome meeting with all the lecturers teaching Computing for Games where we were introduced to the course and what we will be expected to do for the year. From that meeting I learnt that the course we be heavily based on team work, so I will have to learn to work well in a team and try not to shy away from sharing my ideas.   
  
## Week 2 – 19th September  
This week started with our fist official principles of computing lecture on Monday.  In this lecture I learnt about the history of computation and video games as well as the different programming languages and paradigms. For the rest of the week consisted of the Lego Robot Challenge which was an introduction to some simple programming in the form of visual programming in addition to being an ice breaker for the class. We were put into teams and worked together to create a robot that could complete a set of space challenges. This taught us about how to work in teams effectively which is useful for future team projects. In my team I was doing the majority of the visual programming which was quite satisfying as it is hard to make any errors so you would have a working program in no time, however it can become quite repetitive when trying to accurately navigate the robot to complete the challenges. I found the first couple of sessions enjoyable but I was eager to start actual programming and lessons after that.   
What I found challenging was trying to figure out the programming of the robot. I overcame this by attempting lots of different things and seeing what they did so I had an idea of what each thing did in the program. From there I was able to complete the space challenges fairly easily.  
  
## Week 3 - 26th September  
During this week we were put into groups and were told to design a board game based around a card with a game type on it, for example race to the end. The first challenge we encountered was time management. We were given some time to design the game and create a prototype for it, we spent a long time coming up with ideas but then when we were told we only had 10 minutes left we had to rush to make the prototype. We managed to make the prototype by quickly deciding which ideas to use rather than trying to think about how they would make the game different. In the second half o the lesson we made another board game but had much more time so time management wasn't a problem. Myself and my group were quite proud of the board game, melon colony, we ended up creating, one of us liked it so much they spent some time making it in pygame over the weekend.  
  
## Week 4 - 3rd October  
This week started with a lecture about algorithms and annotations which I found quite simple since I had previously learnt about flowcharts and pseudocode at A-Level. We then learnt about agile game development which was quite complex and I didn't understand some of the wording used at the start, such as user story. At the end of the lecture Michael put a definition of user story on the board which made my understanding of what he was talking about before a lot clearer. We were introduced to pygame and briefly shown how to tinker text. I found it quite challenging when I first started trying it for myself, however after some messing around with numbers I ended up with a very large rectangle with the words 'JOHN CENA' in them which I found quite fun.  
 
## Week 5 – 10th October  
This week started with another simple lecture about computer logic and memory which I have learnt before. Some of it was new information to me though, so the lectures are still very useful to me. We had our first tinkering graphics workshop this week which I was finding very challenging. I couldn't get my program to work for a while so I asked my course mates how they were doing it and they pointed me in the right direction. I was happy with my program which could change the colours of a rectangle and have a harambe appear on the screen. Other than I had no problems that week.   
 
## Week 6 – 17th October   
Despite already learning a bit about algorithm complexities, unlike the other monday lectures this one was quite confusing. I think I understood it all quite well, it just took some time to get my head around it, especially with worksheet C. Attempting to complete worksheet C was definitely the biggest challenge I had this week, myself and a course mates spent ages trying to understand one part of the worksheet. In the second tinkering graphics workshop I managed to complete the first task which was calculating colour distance quite easily, but the other tasks I found very challenging and didn't get any to work. After struggling for a while I had a look at someone else's solution on slack to try and understand how to do it. 
 
## Week 7 – 24th October 
In the Comp 110 lecture on Monday we were introduced to object oriented programming and how to make code more efficient by using it. I found the live coding example very useful but I still found it quite challenging to understand everything that was going on. I had another read through the program after the lecture which helped me understand it a bit more. I have been struggling with the tinkering graphics assignment as well, I have decided that I am going to spend more of my free time programming and working on the assignment which should definitely help. Probably the biggest challenge I had this week was attempting to read the 3rd research paper and trying to come up with a research question for my agile essay. To overcome this I need to go over the paper again and do some more research into different aspects of agile development. 

## Week 8 – 31st October 
The biggest challenge of this week was deciding a research question for my agile essay and preparing a presentation about it. I still didn't have a question at the start of the week so I spent some time researching several aspects of agile to find a question. I also found the presentation very hard because I'm not very good at talking in front of lots of people, I am often very quiet and stutter sometimes. This happened when presenting my agile question. In future I will prepare myself more for presenting by learning what I need to say rather than reading of the screen and by speaking louder and more confidently.  

## Week 9 - 7th November 
Not being a very good programmer yet I found keeping up with what my game development team was doing was a challenge this week. I did however manage to add a slow down collision detection algorithm into the game which will be very useful for a lot of features in the game. I am going to do at least half an hour of extra programming practice each day along with the practice I already get from working on the programming assignments. I am also going to attend all the programming drop in sessions. This should help me become a better programmer which will prevent me from falling behind on assignments that include programming, like the game development project.   

## Week 10 – 14th November 
In this week we were introduced to git branching and testing using TravisCI. I found both very confusing and I am still not sure how either work. In class we did a git branching activity online which I found quite useful but I still don't fully understand it. To hopefully gain a better understanding of git branching and testing so I can use it in my work I will complete more of the git branching tutorials on http://learngitbranching.js.org/ and enter the "Git-Game".  

## Week 11 – 21st November 
In this week we had our last tinkering audio lecture, during this we were introduced to some new algorithms such as creating an echo. I found it hard to implement these algorithms into my code and didn't have any new working algorithms by the end of the lecture. We were also introduced to C++ programming and having never seen or used C++ before it looked quite overwhelming. I don't think I took in everything that we learnt in that session so I need to go back over it in my own time.  

## Week 12 – 28th November 
This week I found some of the mathematics for computing a little bit hard to get my head around, however I believe I understood it all quite well after thinking about it since I answered all the socrative questions correctly. Another thing I found hard was tinkering audio, now that my essays were submitted I was focusing on tinkering audio and my game. Working on the game wasn't too challenging, however the tinkering audio programming was very complicated and it took me a long time to implement working algorithms. To improve on this I will continue to practice and hopefully I will gain a better understanding of tinkering audio and create multiple algorithms. 

# Comp 160 CPD

## Week 1
This week the biggest problem was learning to program in C++, it is a big step forward from python. I found worksheet A very hard to do at first because I hadn’t done many tutorials on C++. 
After watching a few tutorials on pluralsight a eventually got it to work. I plan to do some more tutorials on pluralsight to help with worksheet B.

## Week 2
This week I found worksheet B quite challenging, I wasn’t sure how to implement it at all. After I asked brian for some help and had a look at one of my classmates code I understood how to implement it. I’m still finding it hard to get to grips with C++ however which is something I definitely need to work on. To do this  I will continue working through the “Learn to program with C++” course on pluralsight.

## Week 3
I started working on worksheet C during the weeks before teaching,  I implemented the grenade launcher using blueprints as It is easier to pick up than C++. This week I wanted to implement something in C++ but when I tried it i found that I had no idea what I was doing. I looked at some tutorials to help me out and I heard the battery collector tutorials are good for learning so I will watch them in future. Another problem I had was spawning multiple AI so I will see if I can find some help online with that. 

## Week 4
Having watched some C++ tutorials I implemented raycasting into my worksheet C game in C++. Adding the raycast wasn't too challenging but trying to make it possible to switch between firing the grenade launcher and the raycast seemed impossible. I believe the problem was that I implemented the launcher in blueprints and the raycast in C++ so I decided to just change the button for the raycast so you could fire both. I learned that it is hard to connect C++ code to blueprint code. I also figured out how to make my AI spawn randomly in a specified area which I was really happy with.  

## Week 5
This week we were introduced to databases and SQL in our software engineering session. I have learnt about SQL and databases before I came here so a lot of it was relearning and refreshing my memory, which suprisingly was quite challenging because I didn't remember much. For the majority of this week I was attempting to fix a puzzle in my team game. It involved pushing a button which drops a wall to release some boulders into a pit trap to allow the player to cross it. The problem was I couldn't get the boulders to act like they weighed anyhting so when you jumped on them it was like jumping on a beach ball. I came up with a temporary fix which disabled the physics on the boulders when they land in the pit trap to stop them being movable.  

## Week 6
This week we were introduced to the basics of the arduino in our comp140 session, this was something I had been looking forward to. Although I enjoyed it was a bit frustrating trying to figure out why it wasn't working, eventually I was told by a class mate that my breadboard was upside down. For the comp160 session this week we learnt about UNIX servers and remote databases. We had to set up remote servers in our teams and it was a lot harder than I thought it would be, it took us a long time to get it working.

## Week 7
With the viva session coming up at the end of the week I spent a lot of this week working on my comp140 game. Implemented a grinding feature was the biggest challenge with this, I tried quite a few different ways to make it work myself without any help but it just wasn't working how I wanted it to. I decided to look online for some advice and found a good solution however there was still a problem with having more than one grind rail in the game. I plan to fix this issue as soon as possible as I want grinding to be one of the core mechanics of the game. 

## Week 8
This week I focussed on my software engineering essay a lot more than I had been in previous weeks. Before this week I only had an introduction to my essay so I had to rush a little to get a draft ready for next week. This happened last term with my agile essay and is something I really need to work on. Next year I plan to alleviate this problem by setting myself certain days to work on each of my assignments, that way I won't leave the essays til the last few weeks. 

## Week 9
During this week our team had a big issue with some conflicting levels in our game. We had 3 versions of our level at one point because 3 of us added stuff to it at the same time, which in hindsight was a really unintelligent idea. 

## Week 10
I spent the majority of this week working on my software engineering essay and my research journal. I had not done as much work on these essays as I should have so I had to do a lot of work this week. I found it hard to know what to write because of the little research I had done, this meant I had to do some more research I read some more papers before I could write anything meaningful. This was a very challenging and stressful week for me. Hopefully I can avoid this kind of week next year by working more on my essays each week. 

## Week 11
Now that my essays were out the way I starting wokring on my arudino project more. I was able to finally output values to the screen with my gyroscope/accelerometer but I had no idea how to get these values into the unreal engine. I spent a lot of time trying to figure this out but had no luck. 

## Week 12
Over the easter I managed to get my arduino working with my game but only to move my character left and right. I was finding it very hard to figure out how to use multiple values and split them up in engine. After some time I enventually figured it out but was still having some minor problems. 
